README.md, before:

# Spotify-Downloader

[![PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/spotdl.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/spotdl)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/ritiek/spotify-downloader/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Gitter Chat](https://badges.gitter.im/ritiek/spotify-downloader/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/spotify-downloader/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

- Downloads songs from YouTube in an MP3 format by using Spotify's HTTP link.
- Can also download a song by entering its artist and song name (in case if you don't have the Spotify's HTTP link for some song).
- Automatically applies metadata to the downloaded song which includes:

  - `Title`, `Artist`, `Album`, `Album art`, `Lyrics` (if found either on [Genius](https://genius.com/) or [LyricsWikia](http://lyrics.wikia.com)), `Album artist`, `Genre`, `Track number`, `Disc number`, `Release date`, and more...

- Works straight out of the box and does not require you to generate or mess with your API keys (already included).

Below is how your music library will look!

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/Gpch7JI.png" width="290"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/5vhk3HY.png" width="290"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/RDTCCST.png" width="290">

## Installation

❗️ **This tool works only with Python 3.**

Python 2 compatibility was dropped because of the way it deals with unicode (2020 is coming soon too).
If you still need to use Python 2 - check out the (outdated)
[python2](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/tree/python2) branch.

spotify-downloader works with all major distributions and even on low-powered devices such as a Raspberry Pi.

spotify-downloader can be installed via pip with:
```console
$ pip3 install spotdl
```

but be sure to check out the [Installation](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Installation) wiki
page for detailed OS-specific instructions to get it and other dependencies it relies on working on your system.

## Usage

For the most basic usage, downloading tracks is as easy as

```console
$ spotdl --song https://open.spotify.com/track/2DGa7iaidT5s0qnINlwMjJ
$ spotdl --song "ncs - spectre"
```

For downloading playlist and albums, you need to first load all the tracks into text file and then pass
this text file to `--list` argument. Here is how you would do it for a playlist

```console
$ spotdl --playlist https://open.spotify.com/user/nocopyrightsounds/playlist/7sZbq8QGyMnhKPcLJvCUFD
INFO: Writing 62 tracks to ncs-releases.txt
$ spotdl --list ncs-releases.txt
```

Run `spotdl --help` to get a list of all available options in spotify-downloader.

Check out the [Available options](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Available-options)
wiki page for the list of currently available options with their description.

The wiki page [Instructions for Downloading Songs](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Instructions-for-Downloading-Songs)
contains detailed information about different available ways to download tracks.

## FAQ

All FAQs will be mentioned in our [FAQ wiki page](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/FAQ).

## Contributing

Check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.

## Running Tests

```console
$ pytest
```

Obviously this requires the `pytest` module to be installed.

## Disclaimer

Downloading copyright songs may be illegal in your country.
This tool is for educational purposes only and was created only to show
how Spotify's API can be exploited to download music from YouTube.
Please support the artists by buying their music.

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg)](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

update readme with instructions for improved search_format

README.md, after:

# Spotify-Downloader

[![PyPi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/spotdl.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/spotdl)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/ritiek/spotify-downloader/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/ritiek/spotify-downloader)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Gitter Chat](https://badges.gitter.im/ritiek/spotify-downloader/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/spotify-downloader/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

- Downloads songs from YouTube in an MP3 format by using Spotify's HTTP link.
- Can also download a song by entering its artist and song name (in case if you don't have the Spotify's HTTP link for some song).
- Automatically applies metadata to the downloaded song which includes:

  - `Title`, `Artist`, `Album`, `Album art`, `Lyrics` (if found either on [Genius](https://genius.com/) or [LyricsWikia](http://lyrics.wikia.com)), `Album artist`, `Genre`, `Track number`, `Disc number`, `Release date`, and more...

- Works straight out of the box and does not require you to generate or mess with your API keys (already included).

- Search format has two new parameters `publisher` and `copyright`, 
- Above mentioned parameters can be used to fetch original content from youtube 
   - ex: config.yaml 
    - `search_format`: `'{publisher} - {artist} - {track_name}'`
    
Below is how your music library will look!

<img src="http://i.imgur.com/Gpch7JI.png" width="290"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/5vhk3HY.png" width="290"><img src="http://i.imgur.com/RDTCCST.png" width="290">

## Installation

❗️ **This tool works only with Python 3.**

Python 2 compatibility was dropped because of the way it deals with unicode (2020 is coming soon too).
If you still need to use Python 2 - check out the (outdated)
[python2](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/tree/python2) branch.

spotify-downloader works with all major distributions and even on low-powered devices such as a Raspberry Pi.

spotify-downloader can be installed via pip with:
```console
$ pip3 install spotdl
```

but be sure to check out the [Installation](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Installation) wiki
page for detailed OS-specific instructions to get it and other dependencies it relies on working on your system.

## Usage

For the most basic usage, downloading tracks is as easy as

```console
$ spotdl --song https://open.spotify.com/track/2DGa7iaidT5s0qnINlwMjJ
$ spotdl --song "ncs - spectre"
```

For downloading playlist and albums, you need to first load all the tracks into text file and then pass
this text file to `--list` argument. Here is how you would do it for a playlist

```console
$ spotdl --playlist https://open.spotify.com/user/nocopyrightsounds/playlist/7sZbq8QGyMnhKPcLJvCUFD
INFO: Writing 62 tracks to ncs-releases.txt
$ spotdl --list ncs-releases.txt
```

Run `spotdl --help` to get a list of all available options in spotify-downloader.

Check out the [Available options](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Available-options)
wiki page for the list of currently available options with their description.

The wiki page [Instructions for Downloading Songs](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/Instructions-for-Downloading-Songs)
contains detailed information about different available ways to download tracks.

## FAQ

All FAQs will be mentioned in our [FAQ wiki page](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/wiki/FAQ).

## Contributing

Check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.

## Running Tests

```console
$ pytest
```

Obviously this requires the `pytest` module to be installed.

## Disclaimer

Downloading copyright songs may be illegal in your country.
This tool is for educational purposes only and was created only to show
how Spotify's API can be exploited to download music from YouTube.
Please support the artists by buying their music.

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ritiek/spotify-downloader.svg)](https://github.com/ritiek/spotify-downloader/blob/master/LICENSE)
